README.md, before:

# Pelosaurus Rex 🦖

A mobile-first web application that acts as an automated cycling coach, guiding users through power zone interval workouts with large visual timers, workout timeline visualization, and Text-to-Speech audio cues.

## Features

- **PIN-based authentication** - Secure keypad login
- **5 Structured Rides** - Week Plan A (polarized training approach)
  - Ride 1: Z2 Steady (high cadence)
  - Ride 2: Z2 with Z3 Lifts
  - Ride 3: Z2 Steady (repeatable volume)
  - Ride 4: VO₂ Builder (only hard day)
  - Ride 5: Z2 Steady (recovery protection)
- **Prominent zone display** - Current zone (Z1-Z5) clearly visible during intervals
- **Standard warm-up protocol** - 11-minute progressive warm-up with priming set
- **Large timer display** - Readable from distance during workout
- **Visual timeline** - Color-coded segments showing workout structure
- **Text-to-Speech coaching** - Audio cues for zone changes, warnings, and countdowns
- **Wake lock support** - Prevents phone from sleeping during workout
- **Mobile-optimized** - Dark mode, large touch targets, responsive design

## Local Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- pip

### Setup

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run the development server:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

3. Open your browser to `http://localhost:8000`

4. Default PIN is `1234`

## Deployment to Render

### Step 1: Push to GitHub

1. Initialize git repository (if not already done):
```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit - Peloton Workout Assistant"
```

2. Create a new repository on GitHub

3. Push your code:
```bash
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME.git
git push -u origin main
```

### Step 2: Deploy on Render

1. Go to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com/)
2. Click **New +** → **Web Service**
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Configure the service:
   - **Name:** `pelosaurus-rex` (or your choice)
   - **Runtime:** `Python 3`
   - **Build Command:** `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command:** `uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT`

5. Add environment variable:
   - **Key:** `APP_PIN`
   - **Value:** Your custom PIN (e.g., `9999`)

6. Click **Create Web Service**

7. Wait for deployment to complete (2-3 minutes)

8. Access your app at the provided Render URL

## Customizing Workouts

Edit `routines.json` to add or modify workouts. Each ride follows the standard warm-up protocol:

```json
{
  "id": 6,
  "title": "Ride 6 — Custom Workout",
  "description": "Your custom workout (45 min)",
  "intensity": "yellow",
  "segments": [
    {
      "phase": "Z2 Steady",
      "duration": 1860,
      "color": "#8BC34A",
      "instruction": "Your custom instructions here"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Power Zone Colors:**
- Z1 (Recovery): `#4CAF50` (light green)
- Z2 (Endurance): `#8BC34A` (green)
- Z3 (Tempo): `#FFC107` (yellow)
- Z4 (Threshold): `#FF9800` (orange)
- Z5 (VO₂ max): `#F44336` (red)

After editing, commit and push to GitHub - Render will auto-deploy.

## Intensity Levels

- **Green:** Easy/Z2 workouts
- **Yellow:** Moderate/Z3 workouts
- **Red:** Hard/Z4-Z5 workouts

## Browser Compatibility

- **iOS Safari:** Fully supported (requires user interaction for TTS)
- **Chrome (Android):** Fully supported
- **Chrome (Desktop):** Fully supported
- **Firefox:** Supported (Wake Lock may not work)

## Project Structure

```
workout_app/
├── main.py              # FastAPI backend
├── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── routines.json        # Workout data
├── static/
│   ├── script.js        # Frontend logic
│   └── style.css        # Styling
└── templates/
    └── index.html       # Single page application
```

## Troubleshooting

**Issue:** Can't hear audio cues on iOS
- **Solution:** Make sure to tap the "Start" button. iOS requires user interaction to enable audio.

**Issue:** Screen keeps turning off during workout
- **Solution:** Wake Lock is not supported in all browsers. Try Chrome or Safari on mobile.

**Issue:** Authentication fails
- **Solution:** Check that `APP_PIN` environment variable is set correctly in Render dashboard.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Fix iOS Safari audio/TTS issues
Critical fixes for iPhone compatibility:
- Add speech synthesis priming on user gesture (Start button)
- Initialize speechInitialized flag to track TTS state
- Add primeSpeechSynthesis() function called from startWorkout()
- Enhanced speak() function with iOS-specific handling:
  - Auto-cancel previous speech with 50ms delay
  - Set lang='en-US' explicitly for iOS
  - Add error handling and logging
  - Remove double-cancel in countdown (handled by speak())
- Add visibility change handler for background/foreground resume
- Update README with detailed iOS troubleshooting:
  - Silent mode check
  - Volume settings
  - Safari experimental features
  - Background/foreground behavior
- Improve browser compatibility documentation

This ensures TTS audio cues work reliably on iOS Safari when user
taps 'Start Workout' button, addressing the autoplay blocking that
prevents audio without user interaction.

README.md, after:

# Pelosaurus Rex 🦖

A mobile-first web application that acts as an automated cycling coach, guiding users through power zone interval workouts with large visual timers, workout timeline visualization, and Text-to-Speech audio cues.

## Features

- **PIN-based authentication** - Secure keypad login
- **5 Structured Rides** - Week Plan A (polarized training approach)
  - Ride 1: Z2 Steady (high cadence)
  - Ride 2: Z2 with Z3 Lifts
  - Ride 3: Z2 Steady (repeatable volume)
  - Ride 4: VO₂ Builder (only hard day)
  - Ride 5: Z2 Steady (recovery protection)
- **Prominent zone display** - Current zone (Z1-Z5) clearly visible during intervals
- **Standard warm-up protocol** - 11-minute progressive warm-up with priming set
- **Large timer display** - Readable from distance during workout
- **Visual timeline** - Color-coded segments showing workout structure
- **Text-to-Speech coaching** - Audio cues for zone changes, warnings, and countdowns
- **Wake lock support** - Prevents phone from sleeping during workout
- **Mobile-optimized** - Dark mode, large touch targets, responsive design

## Local Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- pip

### Setup

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run the development server:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

3. Open your browser to `http://localhost:8000`

4. Default PIN is `1234`

## Deployment to Render

### Step 1: Push to GitHub

1. Initialize git repository (if not already done):
```bash
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit - Peloton Workout Assistant"
```

2. Create a new repository on GitHub

3. Push your code:
```bash
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_REPO_NAME.git
git push -u origin main
```

### Step 2: Deploy on Render

1. Go to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com/)
2. Click **New +** → **Web Service**
3. Connect your GitHub repository
4. Configure the service:
   - **Name:** `pelosaurus-rex` (or your choice)
   - **Runtime:** `Python 3`
   - **Build Command:** `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - **Start Command:** `uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port $PORT`

5. Add environment variable:
   - **Key:** `APP_PIN`
   - **Value:** Your custom PIN (e.g., `9999`)

6. Click **Create Web Service**

7. Wait for deployment to complete (2-3 minutes)

8. Access your app at the provided Render URL

## Customizing Workouts

Edit `routines.json` to add or modify workouts. Each ride follows the standard warm-up protocol:

```json
{
  "id": 6,
  "title": "Ride 6 — Custom Workout",
  "description": "Your custom workout (45 min)",
  "intensity": "yellow",
  "segments": [
    {
      "phase": "Z2 Steady",
      "duration": 1860,
      "color": "#8BC34A",
      "instruction": "Your custom instructions here"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Power Zone Colors:**
- Z1 (Recovery): `#4CAF50` (light green)
- Z2 (Endurance): `#8BC34A` (green)
- Z3 (Tempo): `#FFC107` (yellow)
- Z4 (Threshold): `#FF9800` (orange)
- Z5 (VO₂ max): `#F44336` (red)

After editing, commit and push to GitHub - Render will auto-deploy.

## Intensity Levels

- **Green:** Easy/Z2 workouts
- **Yellow:** Moderate/Z3 workouts
- **Red:** Hard/Z4-Z5 workouts

## Browser Compatibility

- **iOS Safari (Recommended for iPhone):** ✅ Fully supported
  - Text-to-Speech initializes automatically when you tap "Start"
  - Wake Lock keeps screen on during workouts
  - Works in both portrait and landscape mode
- **Chrome (Android):** ✅ Fully supported
- **Chrome (Desktop):** ✅ Fully supported
- **Firefox:** ⚠️ Partial support (Wake Lock may not work, TTS supported)

## Project Structure

```
workout_app/
├── main.py              # FastAPI backend
├── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── routines.json        # Workout data
├── static/
│   ├── script.js        # Frontend logic
│   └── style.css        # Styling
└── templates/
    └── index.html       # Single page application
```

## Troubleshooting

**Issue:** Can't hear audio cues on iOS
- **Solution 1:** Make sure to tap the "Start" button. iOS Safari requires user interaction to enable Text-to-Speech.
- **Solution 2:** Check that your iPhone is not in Silent Mode (check the physical switch on the side).
- **Solution 3:** Increase your device volume - TTS respects the system volume setting.
- **Solution 4:** Check Settings → Safari → Advanced → Experimental Features and ensure nothing is blocking Web Speech API.
- **Note:** Audio cues are initialized when you tap "Start Workout" and will work throughout the ride.

**Issue:** Audio cuts out or stops mid-workout
- **Solution:** This is rare but can happen if iOS puts the app in background. Tap the screen to resume or pause/resume the workout.

**Issue:** Screen keeps turning off during workout
- **Solution:** Wake Lock is not supported in all browsers. Use Safari or Chrome on mobile for best results.

**Issue:** Authentication fails
- **Solution:** Check that `APP_PIN` environment variable is set correctly in Render dashboard.

**Issue:** Zone changes announced but countdown is silent
- **Solution:** This is an iOS Safari quirk. The app cancels ongoing speech before countdown to ensure numbers are heard. If you're hearing zone changes but not countdown, check volume settings.

## License

MIT
